juan-luna-portrait
> Juan Luna de San Pedro y Novicio Ancheta was a Filipino painter, sculptor and a political activist of the Philippine Revolution during the late 19th century. He became one of the first recognized Philippine artists.

juanluna-joserizal-valentinventura
> The famous Los Indios Bravos photograph of Luna, Jose Rizal and Valentin Ventura in Paris. The lady in the background, sitting by the steps, holding a child, is Paz. Some historians say the woman’s place in this photo reflects her place in the marriage. The photo would usually come out in publications with Paz cropped out.

juan-luna-paz - Wedding of Luna and Paz (December 7, 1886). Alfonso T. Ongpin Collection
> On December 4, 1886, Luna married María de la Paz Pardo de Tavera, a sister of his friends Félix and Trinidad Pardo de Tavera. She was the prized daughter of a very tight-knit, very wealthy political family in self-exile from the Philippines; the Pardo de Taveras, Filipinos of Spanish nobility. 

juan-luna-murder - A headline detailing Luna's murder.
>In 1892, Juan Luna, famous Filipino painter of 400 masterpieces, was involved in a bloody murder at their Paris home. The victims? Her wife, Paz, and Paz's mother, Juliana.

odalisque
> Odalisque, 1885. The Odalisque one of Luna's "Academic Salon portraits" that followed the standards of proper proportion and perspective, and realistic depictions with “an air of dignity and allure”. Although less polished compared to Luna’s other works of art, the Odalisque is typical of the well-planned characteristic of the artist’s portraits. The Odalisque is one of the paintings that made Luna as an officially accepted artist at the Salon of Paris. The Odalisque was a part of the painting collection of Philippine national hero Jose Rizal.
 
 ensuenos de amor
 > Ensueños de Amor, 1890. Literally "Daydreams of Love", is a "dreamy" oil on wood painting. It depicts Luna's wife Maria de la Paz Pardo de Tavera while sound asleep.

 mi hijo andres
 >Mi Hijo Andres. Portrait of Andres, Juan Luna's son.

 tampuhan
 >Tampuhan, 1895. Tampuhan is a 1895 classic oil on canvas painting. It depicts a Filipino man and a Filipino woman having a lovers' quarrel.

 la muerte de cleopatra
 >La Muerte de Cleopatra, 1881. La Muerte de Cleopatra (The Death of Cleopatra) was awarded silver medal by Exposición Nacional de Bellas Artes (National Exposition of Fine Arts) in Madrid in 1881.

espana y filipinas
>Espana y Filipinas, 1886. Espana y Filipinas is oil on wood painting, it is an allegorical depiction of two women together, one a representation of Spain and the other of the Philippines.

spolarium
>Spoliarium, 1884. Spoliarium depicts bloody carcasses of slave gladiators being dragged away from the arena where they had entertained their Roman masters, with their lives. The painting was submitted by Luna to the Exposición Nacional de Bellas Artes in 1884 in Madrid, where it garnered the first gold medal. In 1886, it was sold to the Diputación Provincial de Barcelona for 20,000 pesetas. It currently hangs in the main gallery at the ground floor of the National Museum of the Philippines, and is the first work of art that greets visitors upon entry into the museum.

hymen o hymenee
>Hymen, oh Hyménée! , also known as Boda Romana, is a painting by Filipino painter Juan Luna. Luna, working on canvas, started in 1886 and later completed in 1887 during the artist's honeymoon in Venice after his wedding to Paz Pardo de Tavera. The painting was submitted by Luna to the Exposition Universelle in 1889 in Paris, France, where it garnered a bronze medal. The picture recreates a scene of a Roman wedding ritual specifically the bride's entrance into the groom's home. This painting of Juan Luna was lost long time ago and have been found just now.

